if you're like me sometimes you get
lonely to combat that loneliness you
open up League of Legends you play a
game lose some LP and realize the
strangers you're encountering aren't
helping you open up tinder or Grindr or
single parent meet or farmersonly.com
and surf through the endless waves of
humanity and only find other strangers
that share nothing in common with you
for some reason the technological
wonders of 2018 still haven't evolved
enough to meet the needs of you a person
who wants to play League of Legends
analyst Li except they have because now
you can experience all the heart racing
joy of a tinder match with the shame of
being a bronze 5 team Oh mein little
officially the services for fighting a
teammate rather than a life partner I'm
Travis cafard and this is a diagram
now get SOG comm wasn't intended for lol
players to find love it was actually
created as a teammate finder like many
other games League uses a ranking system
that will match players of similar skill
to play with and against each other with
divisions from bronze all the way up to
challenger so if you're a diamond player
you should be matched up to play with
and it gives other diamond players but
regardless of the rank everyone is the
different skill level and you're still
teaming with 4 complete strangers this
is obviously frustrating in such a
team-based game where communication is
everything when forming proper gameplay
tactics and strategies developers of git
soj wanted to avoid the mess of getting
random cues and provide a safe
environment for League players to meet
up and play together they wanted to
become the quintessential tinder of
League and bring people together and
they've certainly succeeded in more ways
than one let's look at the numbers since
its release in September 2017 get soj
has racked up over 53,000 users 45% of
that in North America 45% in Europe and
10% from other regions to put into a bit
of perspective right estimates there's
over a hundred million active league
players each month the bottom line is
somewhere around point zero five three
percent of League players are using the
app to make some type of connection but
that number could potentially be skewed
with users making multiple accounts on
lol or get soj so how did they grow so
fast with virtually no professional
marketing or promotions this is where
2018 social media comes into play Gate
soj was first released as a prototype
last September
mostly exclusive to Europe then in March
they decided to go public and publicize
their passion project on lead forums
everyone immediately begin to make the
comparison to tender but more on the
side of a dating service it picked up
traction when youtuber pants our dragon
made several videos of him attempting to
pick up girls with the service and even
almost crashed the website according to
developers the app gained 15 to 20
thousand users around the time of that
video alone that's nearly half of its
user base just like on other friend
finder services Godot so J allows you to
create a profile with typical things
like your name age and a brief
description but you also enter your
in-game name rank role and prefer
champions after your profile is made
public you can begin to view other
profiles based on the same parameters
and immediately begin swiping left or
right and open up a chat to potentially
play together get soj also connects with
the Riot Games api showing when you're
online and displaying it to your new
friends while they know people are using
it for potentially romantic reasons
that's not the point of the app they've
even retracted a feature that publicizes
their gender and allows you to sort by
it while they haven't gotten negative
feedback about users trying to pickup
dates they're not planning on building
features that support a dating aspect so
while it wasn't initially meant for
dating it'd still been fairly successful
as a teammate finder and only the first
couple months of release so far users
have swiped over 30 million times and
with 53 thousand users that's somewhere
around 567 swipes per user there's also
been 1.5 million matches made in 1.5
million messages sent between users we
all know dating sucks especially when
you're trying to find someone with like
interests gay toes sub J is
unintentionally catering to a niche
market of League players looking for
love romance and maybe an ad carry
what's wrong with that this is the
diagram and I'm Travis capper